# wine_sales
predict amount of wine to produce based on forecasted future sales

Our analysis produced a Hurdle (Logistic+ Poisson) model that represents the number of cases of wine purchased by wine distribution companies after sampling a wine.

The purpose of this assignment is to use Poisson/Negative Binomial regression to develop a model that predicts the number of sample cases of wine purchased by distribution companies after tasting a wine. The sample cases purchased represent the earning potential of the wine. The logic is that the number of sample cases purchased translates to the number of tasting samples provided to restaurants and wine stores around the country. As the number of tasting samples increases, so does the probability of the wine being sold at a high-end restaurant. Theoretically, there is an assumed correlation between sample cases sold and the earning potential of a wine. Our analysis will seek to predict the number sample cases sold based on chemical properties of the wine, an expert rating system, and label marketability to gain insight on the earning potential of a specific wine. With this information, a manufacturer will be able to adjust their wine offerings to maximize sales to wine distribution companies. We will initiate our efforts with exploratory data analysis to understand our data, progress to data manipulation (imputation and transformations) to prepare our data for logistic regression, then finally initiate model development and selection based on model validation criteria (AIC, ROC Curve, Mean Squared Error) to develop the model that best predicts the number of sample cases sold. Once we’ve selected the best model for our analysis, we will develop a scoring routine that will produce the predicted sample cases sold to wine distribution companies (TARGET).
